a michael siegel and i am a professor in
the Department of Community Health
Sciences here at the Boston University
School of Public Health Tim Navy I'm a
physician and associate professor at
Boston Medical Center we know a lot
about the consumption of alcoholic
beverages among in terms of the volume
of consumption we don't know a lot about
is what underage drinkers are drinking
what specific types of alcoholic
beverages what we did in this study was
examined 2007 data from the youth risk
behavior survey the wire BS in eight
states there was a separate alcohol
module which asked kids what is your
alcoholic beverage type of choice there
were two major findings of the study
first we found that by far liquor was
the beverage of choice on underage
drinkers the second major finding was
that bureau was second but that the malt
beverages were very close third so as
you're mentioning liquor liquor was the
clear choice of almost half of high
school students and I think it's
important to recognize that 10 or 15
years ago that would not have been the
case you know those times beer was
clearly in the beverage of choice so
people can say well kids might like
liquor because you can conceal it more
easily or because it's more easily you
can get drunk quicker if that's your
purpose but that's always been the case
so you have to ask you know what has
changed and we know that one of the
things that's change with respect to
liquor is that they have gone heavily
into cable television advertising going
forward one of the things we're
interested in exploring more is can we
better document the relationship between
advertising for specific brands and what
youth are actually drinking so what
you're suggesting is really that the
next step of this research is to go down
even one more level so to go from the
beverage type you know literally r malt
beverages and to really go down to the
next level which is really the
ran level and to look at whether there's
a relationship between brand specific
alcohol advertising and brand specific
consumption that's where you can really
get into the nitty-gritty and look
better at the relationship between what
ads or kids being exposed to and what
are they actually drinking we need to
get down to that very specific product
level to know that